---
layout: post
title: "BST228: Applied Bayesian Analysis"
---

BST228 Applied Bayesian Analysis is a practical introduction to the Bayesian analysis of biomedical data taught in the [Department of Biostatistics](https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/biostatistics/) at the [Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health](https://www.hsph.harvard.edu) taught by [Prof Stephenson](https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/briana-stephenson/) and Dr Hoffmann. It is an intermediate graduate-level course in the philosophy, analytic strategies, implementation, and interpretation of Bayesian data analysis. Specific topics that will be covered include: the Bayesian paradigm; Bayesian analysis of basic models; Markov Chain Monte Carlo for posterior inference; Stan R software package for Bayesian data analysis; linear regression; hierarchical regression models; generalized linear models; meta-analysis; models for missing data.

## Lectures

1. **Introduction** (taught by Prof Stephenson)
2. **The Bayesian Paradigm** (taught by Prof Stephenson)
3. **Mechanics of Bayes' Theorem and Prior Distributions** (taught by Prof Stephenson)
4. **Posteriors, Prediction, and Simple Models** (taught by Prof Stephenson)
5. **Binomial, Poisson, and Normal Models** (taught by Dr Hoffmann, [slides]({% link assets/2024-09-03-bst228/lecture_05_simple_models-post.pdf %})): Similarities and differences between binomial and Poisson models; what constitutes a "non-informative" prior; normal likelihood.
6. **Normal and Multivariate Models** (taught by Dr Hoffmann, [slides]({% link assets/2024-09-03-bst228/lecture_06_normal_models-post.pdf %})): Choosing hyperparameters for weakly-informative priors; posterior for location parameter of normal likelihood given known precision parameter and vice versa.
7. **Joint Inference** (taught by Dr Hoffmann, [slides]({% link assets/2024-09-03-bst228/lecture_07_joint_inference-post.pdf %})): Joint and marginal distributions; normal-gamma conjugate prior for normal data with unknown location and precision; marginal posterior for location and precision parameters.
8. **Introduction to MCMC** (taught by Prof Stephenson)
9. **Gibbs Sampler** (taught by Prof Stephenson)
10. **MCMC Diagnostics** (taught by Prof Stephenson)
11. **Linear Regression** (taught by Dr Hoffmann, [slides]({% link assets/2024-09-03-bst228/lecture_11_regression-post.pdf %})): Review of MCMC diagnostics; generic Metropolis sampler implementation in R; linear regression likelihood; constructing regression features from data; conditional distributions for Gibbs sampling regression parameters.
12. **Regression Case Study** (taught by Dr Hoffmann, [slides]({% link assets/2024-09-03-bst228/lecture_12_regression_case_studies-post.pdf %})): Limiting cases of conditional distributions for regression parameters; funnels in coefficient-precision space; posterior correlation for regression coefficients for features with non-zero mean; interpreting regression coefficients; posterior predictive distribution for linear regression.
13. **Generalized Linear Models & Stan** (taught by Dr Hoffmann, [slides]({% link assets/2024-09-03-bst228/lecture_13_glm_and_stan-post.pdf %})): Heteroskedastic regression; generalized linear models applied to an example of incumbency advantage in United States House of Representatives elections; introduction to Stan to decouple model definition and posterior sampling.
14. **Hierarchical Models I** (taught by Prof Stephenson)
15. **Hierarchical Models II** (taught by Prof Stephenson)
16. **Hierarchical Regression** (taught by Prof Stephenson)

Future materials will be posted after the next lecture.
